TODO.md, before:

# TODO
This list will probably begin as a very generic list and become more and more focused as I figure out what the heck I'm talking about.

### General
- [X] Use existing bootloader (Limine)
- [ ] Dump sys info
- [ ] Mouse IRQ and handler
- [ ] Timer driver
- [ ] Custom bootloader
- [ ] Testing framework
- [ ] Automatic documentation ([Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/)?)
- [ ] C++ support

# Terminal
- [X] Virtual terminal (vt) driver: multiplex (pseudo)terminal devices on a single text-mode screen
- [X] Keyboard IRQ and driver
- [X] Simple shell with builtin commands
- [ ] (Pseudo)terminal devices (like `/dev/ttyX`, `/dev/ptX`): manage single-channel serial I/O with a file-like interface
- [ ] Terminal multiplexing (like GNU `screen`): multiplex a single terminal device for multiple processes

### Processes
- [ ] Initial bootstrap from kernel mode into userspace
- [ ] Userspace processes
- [ ] Scheduling
- [ ] Threads

### Memory
- Physical memory utilities:
  - [X] struct page array
  - [X] Page allocator (round-robin)
  - [ ] Slab allocator (simple kmalloc)
- Paging (virtual memory) utilities:
  - [X] Create a page table, map pages into it
  - [X] Swap out the page table
  - [X] Unmap pages from page table
  - [ ] mmap/nopage utilities for userspace
- [ ] Swapping

### Libraries/applications
- [ ] libc implementation
- [ ] Shared library loading
- [ ] Run ELF files

Commit message:

Various improvements to slab allocator
- Implement `struct list_head` for slab cache freelists. This probably will save a lot of headache in the future (I had a linked list debugging issue that bothered me for too long).
- Implement `ilog2` and `ilog2ceil` for computing orders (log base 2) from a decimal number.
- Create a test fixture for slab allocation. This includes writing `slab_cache_destroy()` and `slab_destroy()`, which are important but introduced me to many bugs.
- Write some unit tests for the slab allocator.

This commit is about half finished, I just want to save my work here. Still have to write some unit tests and do a lot of cleanup.

TODO.md, after:

# TODO
This list will probably begin as a very generic list and become more and more focused as I figure out what the heck I'm talking about.

### General
- [X] Use existing bootloader (Limine)
- [ ] Dump sys info
- [ ] Mouse IRQ and handler
- [ ] Timer driver
- [ ] Custom bootloader
- [X] Testing framework
- [ ] Automatic documentation ([Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/)?)
- [ ] C++ support
- [ ] A license (this is probably really simple but I'm not sure how to choose one that is compatible with Limine)

# Terminal
- [X] Virtual terminal (vt) driver: multiplex (pseudo)terminal devices on a single text-mode screen
- [X] Keyboard IRQ and driver
- [X] Simple shell with builtin commands
- [ ] (Pseudo)terminal devices (like `/dev/ttyX`, `/dev/ptX`): manage single-channel serial I/O with a file-like interface
- [ ] Terminal multiplexing (like GNU `screen`): multiplex a single terminal device for multiple processes

### Processes
- [ ] Kernel threads
- [ ] Initial bootstrap from kernel mode into userspace
- [ ] Userspace processes
- [ ] Scheduling
- [ ] Threads

### Memory
- Physical memory utilities:
  - [X] struct page array
  - [X] Page allocator (round-robin)
  - [X] Slab allocator (simple kmalloc)
- Paging (virtual memory) utilities:
  - [X] Create a page table, map pages into it
  - [X] Swap out the page table
  - [X] Unmap pages from page table
  - [ ] mmap/nopage utilities for userspace
- [ ] Swapping

### Libraries/applications
- [ ] libc implementation
- [ ] Shared library loading
- [ ] Run ELF files
